3343: add multi mongo db support (#4529)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/mongodb.adoc

If you need more configuration properties, there is a full list at the end of this guide.

== Multiple MongoDB Connection

MongoDB allows you to configure multiple connection.
It works exactly the same way as a single connection, with one important change: a name.

[source,properties]
----
quarkus.mongodb.connection-string = mongodb://login:pass@mongo1:27017/database

quarkus.mongodb.users.connection-string = mongodb://mongo2:27017/userdb
quarkus.mongodb.inventory.connection-string = mongodb://mongo3:27017/invdb,mongo4:27017/invdb
----

Notice there's an extra bit in the key.
The syntax is as follows: `quarkus.mongodb.[optional name.][mongo connection property]`.

=== Named Mongo connection Injection

> When using multiple connection, each `DataSource` also has the `io.quarkus.mongodb.runtime.Connection` qualifier with the name of the connection in the property as the value.

Reviewer: each `DataSource` => each `MongoClient`

If you need more configuration properties, there is a full list at the end of this guide.

> == Multiple MongoDB Connection

Reviewer 2: `Connection` -> `Connections`

> == Multiple MongoDB Connections

Reviewer 3: Wondering if _connection_ is the right word? We are injecting clients and not connections.

Author: I switch from connections to clients...

> MongoDB allows you to configure multiple connection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MongoDB allows you to configure multiple connections.
```

> It works exactly the same way as a single connection, with one important change: a name.

Reviewer 2: `a name` -> `a connection needs to have a name`

> It works exactly the same way as a single connection, with one important change: a connection needs to have a name.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using several connections works the same way as having a single connection.
However, the connection must be identified with a _name_,
```

[source,properties]
----
quarkus.mongodb.connection-string = mongodb://login:pass@mongo1:27017/database

quarkus.mongodb.users.connection-string = mongodb://mongo2:27017/userdb
quarkus.mongodb.inventory.connection-string = mongodb://mongo3:27017/invdb,mongo4:27017/invdb
----

> Notice there's an extra bit in the key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Notice there's an extra bit in the key (the `users` and `inventory` segments).
```

> The syntax is as follows: `quarkus.mongodb.[optional name.][mongo connection property]`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The syntax is as follows: `quarkus.mongodb.[optional name.][mongo connection property]`.
If the name is omitted, it configures the default connection. 
```

=== Named Mongo connection Injection

> When using multiple connection, each `MongoClient` also has the `io.quarkus.mongodb.runtime.MongoClientConnection` qualifier with the name of the connection in the property as the value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When using multiple connections, each `MongoClient`, you can select the connection to inject using the `io.quarkus.mongodb.runtime.MongoClientConnection` qualifier.
```

Using the above properties to configure three different connections, you can also inject each one as follows:

[source,java,indent=0]
--
@Inject
MongoClient defaultMongoClient;

@Inject

> @MongoClientConnection("users")

Reviewer 3: Wondering about the name of the qualifier. `MongoClientName` might be enough. 
Potentially, it could use the `@Named` qualifier too (@mkouba would it be allowed in this case?)

If you need more configuration properties, there is a full list at the end of this guide.

== Multiple MongoDB Connection

MongoDB allows you to configure multiple connection.
It works exactly the same way as a single connection, with one important change: a name.

[source,properties]
----
quarkus.mongodb.connection-string = mongodb://login:pass@mongo1:27017/database

quarkus.mongodb.users.connection-string = mongodb://mongo2:27017/userdb
quarkus.mongodb.inventory.connection-string = mongodb://mongo3:27017/invdb,mongo4:27017/invdb
----

Notice there's an extra bit in the key.
The syntax is as follows: `quarkus.mongodb.[optional name.][mongo connection property]`.

=== Named Mongo connection Injection

When using multiple connection, each `MongoClient` also has the `io.quarkus.mongodb.runtime.Connection` qualifier with the name of the connection in the property as the value.
Using the above properties to configure three different connections, you can also inject each one as follows:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
@Inject
MongoClient defaultMongoClient;

@Inject

> @Connection("users")

Reviewer 2: I don't see this annotation anywhere in the code. Am I missing something?

Author: it has been renaed to (at) MongoClient

Reviewer 2: Cool, then we will need to update the documentation as well.
